we decided to draw on Goya we got
someone from the gallery to go and buy
them for us we suggested that we were
going to have a slush fund so that the
money that was hopefully working
freighters by selling the first word
will go into buying a second set so that
again we would turn it form a kind of a
conceptual or just relax into something
which was much more malevolent which is
to which is to say that if we get our
hands on every toy asset we will draw on
them the idea of drawing on the work was
a way of amplifying some of the more
monstrous or abject elements of the work
which kind of mean and maybe perhaps
tease them out I mean the point about
Goya making the disaster of war was that
it was about wide dissemination you know
the etching press was about kind of
distribution rather than kind of
scarcity but what we're doing is we're
verifying a work by drawing on them so
that you know in effect what we can do
is that we can deplete the numbers that
are available so that perhaps they do
become you know rarer than rocky
horseshit
I think the question that being
vandalism is actually technically
incorrect as vandalism is kind of news
normally schematically destructive when
what we did with the Goya pictures was
was to draw on them very delicately so
they're moreover drawings than they are
acts of vandalism
it's an act of arisia of sorts so it's a
way of making a point but making a point
quite firmly but I think that's part of
our argument about the Goya as part of
the the institutional framework that's
kind of somehow suppresses the work by
this kind of absurd kind of ethical
dynamic which is to say that these
images are almost journalistic
depictions of atrocity you actually look
at the Goya prism you know the the the
the degree of of the artists interest
kind of gravitates towards the areas of
Blas eration and castration and cutting
and so in a way they kind of undermine
the moral framework that's that seems
frame by and I think this is this is a
matter of actually looking at the work
and so I think by drawing on the work I
think we were trying to get people to
look at the work